Now that we have added a little bit of HDMI all markup to our application it's time to introduce the
concept of the Lavell blade components.
So first let's see what's the difference between the layouts between including some templates and a
all complete components.
So let's head to our visual studio code editor and take a look at the first example.
So this template is the show blade BHP from The Post's namespace.
And what we do here is we extend the layout which basically means that whatever is in the layout would
be rendered for the page but we just modify certain section.
So what we want to do is we want a boilerplate for our page everything that is contained inside the
layout.
But here in the specific section called content we would like to render something else something which
is exactly inside this template.
Now we also have an edited template that also extends a layout and put some specific content.
But here we also include a template.
So what how including works is we have some template which we can call partial template which doesn't
really exist on its own.
And how that works is we just echo whatever is inside this template.
And also this template underscore form inherits every variable that is being accessible to the edit
template.
So since we have passed our post variable here which is being passed through the post controller it
also has an access to this variable that post.
But if you would include this form template anywhere place else in any other template this would just
give you an error because this basically is like a chunk that can only be added to either the edit template
or the create template where we also include that.
So it is very specific.
It depends on the other templates and well basically the case with layout is the same.
So what are larval blade components are like the most reusable chunks of your templates where you create
something that you can put anywhere.
And it should work because you are actually specifying what should be rendered inside it.
All right.
So if this sounds a little bit more complicated the best way to see what is the difference and how components
work is to see an example.
So let's start with our simple example so let's head back to our application and add a brand new blog
post with well whatever the title content doesn't really matter.
But what we can see after adding this blog post is that we have this new text which isn't really a batch
it's not really visible but this thing is can be can look much better so let's see what we can do with
this.
So this is being displayed in the post that we have other it is at least was added in the last five
minutes.
So instead of just surrounding it with a strong tag we can add something else like div class and we
can use the we can use the botched class botch success so those are the classes from the good strap.
And now let's see how this might look like.
So now we have a much better batch but what if we would like to use those budgets anywhere else inside
our code.
So we would like to make this think reusable and only pass that text that has to be displayed inside
the box.
So we basically do not want to repeat ourselves with adding the same HDMI all in every place where we
would like to show some kind of a badge.
So what we can do is we can create a component so to create a component you need to add a new view.
So let's add now our view inside the views folder and call it batch blade BHP.
So this is our new component.
Now let's copy this fragment into the barge.
So now what we can do is we can use this component so instead of using this code here we can use that
component directive and the component name is batch the same as the name of the template which is in
the main namespace of our reviews.
And you have to end it with and component
now save the changes and let's see if we have it displayed.
So yes it is still there.
Now what if you would like to modify the text that should be displayed inside the batch.
So components have a special variable which is called slot
so if you echo slot now your component makes much more sense because everything what you put between
those two directives component and and component will be available inside your component as a slot variable.
So let's say the changes and let's see if that works.
So we have new but we can also specify something else like brand new post
and you can see that it works.
I can even add this somewhere else.
Obviously this particular example doesn't make much sense but you see what we can do.
So basically we created our chunk of code which we can add some specific properties to.
So.
Now let's remove that from this place because obviously in this place this doesn't make much sense.
Now that's the default slot of the component.
So whatever you put between component and end component is available has the variable name slot.
Now if you would need some additional slots or data to be passed to your component let's say in this
example we are using the batch success class but you might want to add as well.
You might want your body to look specific depending on the context.
So what we can do is we can use another slot
and then we'll just have to provide our specific name when we use this component.
So let's do something like this.
If that type is specified we echo whatever is inside the type.
If it's not we use the default success so we'll be just manipulating the classes of bootstrap this way.
Now how can you set this additional extra parameter.
So let's say this changes and see if that still works.
So this post is now more than five minutes old so let's modify 20 so we can continue working on it.
So we have brand new post.
All right.
Now we want to change the type of this batch so to pass additional parameters you can add second argument
to the component directive.
And here you'll specify the name of this slot and its value.
So let's use primary.
That's another class from budgets inside bootstrap
and you can see that it is now blue and this is because we have specified an additional parameter and
inside the component we are checking if the type is specified.
If it's not we use the default value.
So that would be the basics very basic component and well let's see the next lecture when we will see
how we can make much more useful and interesting components that will have much more slots.